[GIRL] Out of the way,
impoverished one.
Are you really so eager to die?
[GIRL]
I said move it or die.
For what occasion,
does a peasant remain on
their feet in my presence?
[GIRL] Tch!
This is why I detest mortals...
When I think about having
to preside over groups
of ilk like this,
it makes me wanna die.
[GIRL] I am going to
remember your face.
Uh, so are you like waiting
for a bus or something?
Oh, Mr. Delinquent!
Okay, so what's your deal?
Did something happen?
What? Who said
anything happened to me?
I'm just so happy
to see your menacing face!
I really should be
apologizing for all the times
I've made you worry about me.
[MICHIRU]
Well, then apologize.
You can start by taking back
what you just said
about my face.
Oh, speaking of,
Mr. Delinquent?
Do you think Sakiguchi will
be coming to the Club today?
Uhhh, Nagahiro? I dunno.
Why d'you ask?
You need something
from him specifically?
[sighs] His attendance has
been kinda terrible, lately.
It's not really out of the
ordinary this time of year
seeing as he's President.
And by the way how long
you gonna keep this up?
This incessant need
to call him "Sakiguchi"?
[MAYUMI]
Huh?
[MICHIRU "Mr. Delinquent,"
"Mr. Bare-Legs,"
and let's not forget
about "Mr. Genius."
You've been giving all of us
crappy nicknames but not him.
Somehow, he's the only one
you still address properly.
[MAYUMI]
Well, I would, but, I mean,
Sakiguchi is a
third-year student.
I can't go around
calling an upperclassman
"Mr. Lolicon", you know?
Yeah, no, not what
I'm suggesting.
I'm saying,
get over the age thing.
The Pretty Boy Detective
Club consists of our leader
at the top, and
then the rest of us, that's it.
We operate as equals.
Honestly, that's the only reason
you see me playing nice
with someone like Nagahiro.
[MAYUMI]
Hmm...
Here's what I'm
thinking, Mayumi.
If Nagahiro is around today
and if there's something you
want to talk to him about,
here's a challenge for you.
Try calling him
"Mr. President" or something.
[MAYUMI]
"Mr. President"?
But if I address him like that,
he'll realize
I'm making fun of him!
[MICHIRU] So you admit
you're make fun of us.
[MAYUMI]
Ohh...
It was
a gigantic hagoita .
[MAYUMI] An " oshie-hagoita "
to be precise.
It's probably just some
new artsy masterpiece
Sosaku came up with.
He doesn't recall
anything of the sort.
Well, then, is it the
work of Ms. Towai?
Honestly, Mayumi,
I doubt that's the case.
Ms. Towai's been
a total outsider
to this academy for years.
In what world,
do you see her setting up
such a suspicious
object in the art room?
[MAYUMI grunts]
Yeah, I guess
that makes sense...
Maybe it's what's-his-name?
That con artist?
[MAYUMI] That just doesn't
line up with Fudatsuki's M.O.
I really can't see him
being the perpetrator.
Fudatsuki is a
high-stakes gambler.
No stakes, no audience,
what's the point?
Hah. You sure seem
to know a lot about that guy.
You two working
together or something?
[MAYUMI]
Oh, come on.
"If you know the enemy
and know yourself,
you need not fear the result
of a hundred battles."
Don't be jealous.
Huh? Jealous of what?
Your philosophical bullshit?
In any event, it just
doesn't sound like him.
I mean, the idea
of smuggling something
into enemy territory is
certainly on-brand for a gambler
but still, why the heck
would he send us a hagoita ?
If there's some kind
of hidden meaning to it,
it's a swing and a miss for me.
I think the meaning
is quite clear!
What d'you say to this, boys?
Perchance it's a
Happy New Year's gift!
Maybe it's Rei?
This could be the
work of the Twenties.
[MAYUMI]
That's a theory I suspect
we can immediately dismiss.
Considering the Twenties,
by all accounts is an
actual criminal syndicate.
I mean, it would be
one thing if the hagoita
was wire-tapped,
or laced with explosives...
But that's not the case,
I've already confirmed
as much with my eyes.
[HYOTA]
Oh, well...
That's a shame.
I was hoping I'd get to see
those lovely legs again.
So, what?
Are we all out of ideas, then?
No new suspects
or leads to follow?
Then let's quit wasting
our time on debating.
We can have Nagahiro look
into it when he frees up.
[MANABU]
Hmm...
Well, I suppose
we've discussed as much
as we can without Nagahiro.
So!
Why don't we proceed
to the next topic at hand?!
Winter break is upon us,
and I propose we hold
a winter training camp
for The Pretty Boy
Detective Club!
[MAYUMI]
Wait, that's it?
We're done?
Am I being paranoid?
I feel like this isn't a matter
we should be
shelving so quickly.
If only there were a witness,
someone who saw
such a suspicious
object enter the art room?
[gasps]
That's right.
Earlier today, when I was on
my way here to the art room,
I crossed paths with that
yokai --that zashiki-warashi .
What are the odds
that it was on it was back
from visiting this very room?
[MAYUMI]
Then is it possible...
...that a spirit is responsible
for leaving this thing
in our company?
A winter training camp?
With all due respect, Leader?
Are we seriously gonna hole up
in some villa in the mountains?
And let me guess,
I'm cooking every meal?
Any idea how much work that is?
Last I checked,
I'm not your exclusive chef.
Believe me, I'm all in for this
but I really can't afford
to miss every team practice,
so we may have to play
with the schedule a bit.
Oh, and I guess
I'm bracing for it?
But can we try to avoid
really cold places?
If I get goosebumps,
it will just ruin
my beautiful legs!
[MAYUMI]
Um...
Can I say something?
Yes, Mayumi Dojima?
If you have specific needs
for the winter training camp,
by all means speak your heart!
Actually, I was going to add
something about the hagoita .
Oh my, you don't say.
Still on about that, are we?
You're fixated!
Hey! What's up, Mayumi?
It's pretty obvious you've
got something on your mind,
so let's hear it.
Zashiki-warashi.
I didn't say anything before,
but I encountered a zashiki-
warashi today on my way here...
...and the more
I think about it,
the more I'm convinced
that that yokai is responsible
for bringing that creepy
oshie-hagoita into the art room.
Mayumi.
Question for you.
Did that " yokai "
happen to call you
something like
"impoverished" or "peasant"
or "uninformed"
or "scum of society"?
[MAYUMI]
Umm, I think...
I think I remember hearing
"impoverished" and "peasant,"
but I don't think it
called me "uninformed"
or "scum of society."
But there's one thing in
particular that it said to me...
It was something so horrifying,
I'm racking my brain,
but I must have
blocked it out completely.
It was "mortals," right?
[MAYUMI]
How do they know?
Why do they know?!
Wait, do you mean to tell me
that you've both
encountered Yurika?
I'm afraid that is not "Yurika."
That child's name
is Kodaki Kawaike.
Nagahiro's fiancée.
And she is no yokai. Perhaps a
devil is a more apt metaphor.
[MAYUMI]
She's a devil?
[MANABU]
Regrettably.
It appears as though
a ferocious predator
has trained their eyes upon you.
[HYOTA] A lot went down before
you joined, thanks to her.
Specifically, what happened
with the summer training camp.
Summer training camp?
Well, guess for one thing,
we never actually
ended up having one.
We were forced to cancel
the thing thanks to her.
[MAYUMI] Sounds like
there's a story there...
Shame, really.
Though I suppose this is a tale
best told by the
one directly involved.
Alas, we can go no
further without Nagahiro.
Unless, of course...
Sorry to ask but can
you run an errand for me?
So sorry to keep you waiting.
Now then... How can I help you?
[NAGAHIRO] Is that right?
And you're certain of it?
I'm so sorry to hear
my fiancée has been
troubling you, Miss Mayumi.
Though this marriage
was arranged
by our parents
without consultation,
I should have
taken the initiative
to introduce the
two of you myself.
[MAYUMI]
Sure...
[NAGAHIRO] I'll begin with the
conclusion. This crime was,
without a doubt,
perpetrated by Miss Kodaki.
And I believe I have a
solid grasp on her intent.
Prior to your
involvement with this club,
there were a
number of "incidents."
Fortunately, it seemed
for a time that things
had finally begun to settle.
However, when you were permitted
to join, a part of me worried
that these troubles I had
believed to be behind us,
would again resurface.
You see...
You see my fiancée.
A Student in class 1-A
of Yubiwa Elementary,
Miss Kodaki Kawaike, was denied
entry into this very club,
by the selfsame leader who
welcomed you with open arms.
[MAYUMI] As he whispered the
truth to me in that moment,
I was transfixed.
Not by the revelation,
but by the sound of his voice.
I'm not sure that I retained
a single thing that was said.
[MAYUMI]
U-Um... Hey, Sakiguchi?
I realize this
may come as a surprise
and the last thing I want is
to put you on the spot...
But I can't keep doing this.
Deny me if you must,
I'll understand.
I have to tell you
how I really feel!
Hang on.
Is this sounding like
I'm confessing my love to him?
Wait a minute!
I take it back!
Don't get me wrong, Sakiguchi,
you're extremely handsome,
but you're not
even close to my type!
I feel as if I've
been courted and dumped
in the span of a minute.
[MAYUMI] Actually, there's
something I was hoping
you could help me with.
It has to do with
the sound of my voice...
[NAGAHIRO]
Your voice?
[MAYUMI]
The choir contest.
It's an event held by the
Academy at the end of each year.
Okay. So here's the thing...
[MAYUMI]
I haven't told anybody
why I've been attending school
in a boy's uniform.
I guess I've just let people
assume whatever they want,
which is fine, but now,
despite sounding
the way that I do,
I've been assigned to sing
with the male section
of our choir.
Hence, my problem.
As its plain to see,
I really need your help.
Please teach me to change the
pitch and timbre of my voice.
That way I'll be able
to sing low enough naturally
so as not to feel out of place!
I think you're
overcomplicating this.
Just explain the situation
to your class rep--
they can have you
reassigned as a soprano.
[MAYUMI]
I would but my worry is,
wouldn't I run the risk of
exposing our Club's existence?
[NAGAHIRO]
That is a consideration.
I suppose you're right.
Here is my proposal.
As it seems I have troubled you
with my fiancée's conduct,
I will agree to train you
so that you may develop
the voice of your desires.
That is, I have one condition.
[MAYUMI]
Oh? Ohhhhh.
Huh?
Did he...
Did he say unconditionally?
Miss Mayumi. In exchange
for my earnest tutelage,
I'd like you to make a genuine
effort to befriend Miss Kodaki.
You see, she hasn't
made any friends.
[MAYUMI]
Okay...?
But I haven't made
any friends here either...
What do you think, Nagahiro?
Does this look like something
Kodaki might have created?
[NAGAHIRO]
This is almost undoubtedly hers.
As always, I haven't a clue
what she was attempting
to capture with this piece.
Perhaps this monstrosity echoes
her emotional landscape.
In any event,
I'm sorry I'm late.
And I'm sorry my personal matter
has cast a shadow on our Club.
Oh no, I don't mind at all.
There are no such thing as
"personal matters" here.
In the Pretty Boy
Detective Club,
we face adversity together!
[MAYUMI] Do you think it's
possible that Yurika...
Oh, sorry, I mean, Kodaki
was eager for another chance
to join the club and so
she created this hagoita
as a kind of functional resume?
I must say,
it's quite generous of you
to assume positive intent,
Miss Mayumi.
I don't know, that doesn't
feel right to me, either.
Though I might
have been in agreement
if you had said it was
a declaration of war.
[MAYUMI]
A declaration of war...
No, wait, isn't there a meaning
behind sending
someone a hagoita ?
[NAGAHIRO]
Well, regardless of her intent,
nevertheless, we find ourselves
"saddled with a paddle,"
as it were, and we are going to
have to do something about this.
Though, in a perfect world,
she would simply
come back and reclaim it.
That certainly be the most
appropriate resolution
provided in doing so,
she took responsibility.
I don't think
there's a chance in hell
that devil girl will listen
to a word we have to say.
It'll be fine, Michiru.
I have a great idea
that addresses that point.
[MAYUMI]
And I have a sneaking suspicion
that I'm going to be at the
center of this "great idea"...
It's decided!
We'll have Nagahiro
take the lead
and handle all the negotiations.
No small feat,
as you'll be entreating
one of few people upon which
your beautiful voice has
no effect, but I have faith!
I would say that's about
all we can do for now,
however there's one
other detail to consider.
That hagoita is
of formidable size
and can't be easy to move.
So how in the world
was that irredeemable girl able
to get it to this art room?
Unless we figure this out,
there's no telling
how soon we can expect
another infiltration or
what she'll leave behind.
And next time,
it may not be suspicious
it could be dangerous.
[MICHIRU]
You think so?
It doesn't strike me
as much of a mystery.
She probably used a cart
or something, you know?
[MAYUMI]
There's no way she used a cart.
This campus is
full of staircases.
And anyway, even if she
somehow resolved that issue
having now delivered the
hagoita to the art room,
she'd still have the cart,
so she would have
needed to take the cart
with her when she left.
But!
When she crossed paths with me,
the zashiki-warashi
was empty-handed!
How's that?
Why does it seem
like you get excited
shooting down
someone else's theory?
Are you sure you're not
Kodaki Kawaike in disguise?
She wouldn't have asked anyone
to carry it for her, right?
That doesn't seem like her.
Even if the possibility exists,
considering that
girl's personality,
I highly doubt
she'd ask for help.
Besides tactically speaking,
doesn't she risk drawing
even more attention to herself
by increasing the number
of perpetrators involved?
Okay, so does that mean
that it's impossible
for Yurika to have done it?
[NAGAHIRO] No, there is no doubt
in my mind she is the culprit.
On this point, I am unwavering.
I will say it again,
that oshie-hagoita was
created by Miss Kodaki.
[MAYUMI]
With that in mind,
we currently have two mysteries
before us that need solving.
Why did Kodaki do such a thing?
And how did Kodaki
do such a thing?
[MICHIRU] Nagahiro will
approach her personally
so that should take care
of the motive question.
Meanwhile, it's
our job to figure out
how it would be possible to
pull something like that off...
...for someone as
small as her, I mean.
So, first thing
that comes to mind
is you just don't bring
in the completed item.
Instead, why not
bring it in in pieces,
and then you can assemble it
once you've got everything
in the art room?
[MAYUMI] Sorry, but that's
impossible, Mr. Delinquent.
That thing is
on one solid board.
That hagoita is constructed
in a shape and size
that is far too big
for a child to carry.
[HYOTA] First of all, can that
thing even fit through the door?
And second, maybe it's
hollow and really light.
[MAYUMI] Well,
one way we could find out,
would be to try picking it up,
and then see if we could
fit through the door
with it in one piece.
That would take care
of both concerns, right?
The question is who
would be willing to do it?
Does anyone actually
want to touch that?
[MAYUMI] It stands to reason
that the least powerful member
of the Club should be
the one to do it.
Hey, Lead--
Nope. I will do it.
[shudders]
The leader is loved way
too much in this group.
[MANABU]
Hmm?
Somebody, give me a hand!
This is crazy heavy!
"Damsel in distress" much?
Hey! This is much easier!
I can really count on you!
[MICHIRU] Don't even think
about playing "big sister"
after pulling that
damsel crap before.
All right little further.
[MAYUMI] It fit through
the door pretty easily.
Huh...
How about we put this
on the table for now
and inspect it?
[HYOTA] I say we take
the whole thing apart
and turn over
every piece for clues.
Wait, but didn't
we just figure out
that we can fit this
through the door as is?
Even so, if we take it apart,
there's a chance
we'll find something!
[MAYUMI] As an artist himself,
he can't overlook
the destruction of
someone else's work.
Wait, why is he telling me
this and not Mr. Bare Legs?
I'm not the one standing here
asking us to take
the thing apart!
[MANABU]
Hmmm.
It seems as if today's
discussion has come to an end.
I'd rather not spend
too much time on this,
so let's reconvene
bright and early.
Everyone aside from Nagahiro,
I expect nothing short
of a beautiful theory!
How did Kodaki Kawaike manage
to bring this giant
oshie-hagoita into this room?
Oh, and before I forget,
please think about
where you'd like to go
for the training camp
and make you requests.
And with that,
we're disbanding for today!
[MAYUMI groans]
[MAYUMI yawns]
Such an unflattering posture.
Maidservant.